# 1D-Polyene Hückel Matrix Constructor and Diagonalizer

A program was developed for a university exam to constructs and diagonalizes the Hamiltonian of a one-dimensional polyene (Hückel Matrix),
whether linear or cyclic, based on an input keyword. Additionally, it calculates the
HOMO (Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital), LUMO (Lowest Unoccupied Molecular Orbital), and the energy difference between them (band gap).
The program considers two types of dimerization as defined in the input:
- Bond alternation (e.g., different bond lengths)
- Atom alternation (e.g., different atom types)

Before running the program, ensure the LAPACK software package (LAPACK Users' Guide (Third) (1999);
DOI: 10.1137/1.9780898719604) is installed in your machine.
It is available at https://www.netlib.org/lapack/.

## Folder Structure

- **input**: Includes sample input file. Make sure that the input file is named `huckel.in` before running the program.

- **output**: Stores all output files generated by the program for the sample input file.

## Input file Configuration

The program allows users to configure the following parameters:

- **Number of Atoms:** The total number of atoms in the system.
- **Structure:** Specify whether the system is linear or cyclic.
- **Dimerization:** Configure various types of dimerization, such as bond alternation and atom alternation.
- **Unit Cell Configuration:** Specify the number of atoms in the unit cell and the number of electrons per unit cell.
- **Alpha and Beta Values:** Define the alpha and beta values.
- **Output Configuration:** Specify the number of eigenvectors to print and their corresponding indices.

If atom dimerization is applied, multiple alpha values must be specified to match the number of atoms per unit cell. Similarly, for bond dimerization, two different beta values ($\beta_+$ and $\beta_-$) are required. If dimerizations are not applied, the program defaults to the first alpha value for atom dimerization and the first beta value for bond dimerization.

## Instructions

1. Create an input file named `huckel.in` with a structure similar to the provided samples in the `input` folder.
2. Compile and run the program using the following commands:

```bash
gfortran huckel.f90 -o huckel -llapack
./huckel
```
3. Three outputs will be generated:
   - `huckel.out`: a file that summarizes all the data of the simulation. 
   - `evalu.out`: a file that contains the orbital energies (eigenvalues of Hückel Matrix).
   - `evect.out`: a file that contains eigenvectors specified in the input file.
